czech/errmsg.sys: czech/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err czech/errmsg.txt czech/errmsg.sys
danish/errmsg.sys: danish/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err danish/errmsg.txt danish/errmsg.sys
dutch/errmsg.sys: dutch/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err dutch/errmsg.txt dutch/errmsg.sys
english/errmsg.sys: english/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err english/errmsg.txt english/errmsg.sys
estonian/errmsg.sys: estonian/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err estonian/errmsg.txt estonian/errmsg.sys
french/errmsg.sys: french/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err french/errmsg.txt french/errmsg.sys
german/errmsg.sys: german/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err german/errmsg.txt german/errmsg.sys
greek/errmsg.sys: greek/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err greek/errmsg.txt greek/errmsg.sys
hungarian/errmsg.sys: hungarian/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err hungarian/errmsg.txt hungarian/errmsg.sys
italian/errmsg.sys: italian/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err italian/errmsg.txt italian/errmsg.sys
japanese/errmsg.sys: japanese/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err japanese/errmsg.txt japanese/errmsg.sys
korean/errmsg.sys: korean/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err korean/errmsg.txt korean/errmsg.sys
norwegian/errmsg.sys: norwegian/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err norwegian/errmsg.txt norwegian/errmsg.sys
norwegian-ny/errmsg.sys: norwegian-ny/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err norwegian-ny/errmsg.txt norwegian-ny/errmsg.sys
polish/errmsg.sys: polish/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err polish/errmsg.txt polish/errmsg.sys
portuguese/errmsg.sys: portuguese/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err portuguese/errmsg.txt portuguese/errmsg.sys
romanian/errmsg.sys: romanian/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err romanian/errmsg.txt romanian/errmsg.sys
russian/errmsg.sys: russian/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err russian/errmsg.txt russian/errmsg.sys
slovak/errmsg.sys: slovak/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err slovak/errmsg.txt slovak/errmsg.sys
spanish/errmsg.sys: spanish/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err spanish/errmsg.txt spanish/errmsg.sys
swedish/errmsg.sys: swedish/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err swedish/errmsg.txt swedish/errmsg.sys
ukrainian/errmsg.sys: ukrainian/errmsg.txt
	$(top_builddir)/extra/comp_err ukrainian/errmsg.txt ukrainian/errmsg.sys
